Nick, we come back to these fundamentals again.
You can't have a book collection where you and I are checking out 100,000 books a day and you cannot shelf 100,000 books a day coming back in.
Understand?
Yep.
Well, these are just basic fundamentals.
You better be set up if you have a new library opening that you're going to have three times the amount of circulation for at least the first year.
And so you have to have the pages set up, the book trucks.
Everything has to be on go to get those books back on the shelf.
They didn't.
They just piled up there in the room and they moved them into other rooms.
And they were dead storage there then.
So now you run into massive public complaints because your brother goes in and the book has been returned, you returned it, and now they say they can't find it.
Do you think it would have been a good idea when they were building this thing to have a librarian in the loop?
Oh, you should leave.
The thing is, I think some of us, I'm very enamored with my Macintosh computer.
You know, I love it.
I kiss it every day.
But I also, I know when I sit down here, somehow I have to phrase a good sentence.
Right.
And the technology of the computer...
is great to edit and reorganize and so forth, but you and I have to be the ones that give the love and the line and the feel for the words and do the shaping and the creating.
The computer is not good.
And librarians, some of them have become enamored in the last
the last 40 years with this idea that microfilm first is going to do everything and second, the computer is going to do everything and all you have to do is have a fine computer.
But another basic thing, he set up a very poor computer system.
Yeah, that's almost unforgivable.
For a guy that wrote the book called The Electronic Library,
You know, the library.
You think he would have had a terrific computer set up.
Yeah.
The computer system there is not as good as here at the University of Texas.
You know, it's not even comparable in quality.
So a lot of his fundamentals somehow, I think he was caught up.
with this huge task of trying to get the bond issues, get the budget increased, and trying to balance the staff to a degree, that he just couldn't be involved with the basics.
And he didn't delegate anyone to do it.
I think really his priority was, though, in the electronic library, though.
Yes.
I mean, I'm not asking you to comment on that.
I don't think there's much doubt that that's where his interests were.
That's just where his major interests are.
Right.
But there again, he needs to go back and he needs to go over the country
and look to see what's being done in other libraries in this very field, and he's not doing it.
I mean, he denies it now that he cared about books, but, I mean, the fact is he also made the statement when they had that earthquake in 1989, and, you know, and they had some books fall off the shelves, and he said this is an ideal opportunity to clean out the Augean stables.
Oh, yeah.
You know, basically comparing books to horseshit, you know?
But the thing is, I think he played a very vital, important role.
And that is to, he brought vivid attention to that library.
He got a great budget and a book budget.
He got the new building funded, you know, and he got it built.
And now it can be reshaped, and you can add storage space, and they can even go back over to the old main and probably be some stacked space.
No, that's not what's going to happen.
They're going to take over that Brooks Hall.
Yeah, they're going to take over Brooks Hall.
And that looks like it's going to happen, you know, and then they'll have to spend a couple million dollars down there fixing it up.
Yeah.
I've been down there, took a bunch of photographs while I was down there.
Yeah, I went through there.
at that time.
They're damn lucky they've got it, let me tell you.
Well, this is another thing, see?
They stumbled into that.
I mean, it absolutely adjoins the new building.
I know it.
You walk from one to the other without going outside.
You know, that's almost like a godsend.
It's an incredible story, though, that you go out and build a new building and don't have the lineal footage of Shelby doing the old.
And yet that was one of my problems there, was running out of space.
I was just in Germany and Sweden just a couple weeks ago.
And, of course, I went to the brand new Deutsche Bibliothek in Frankfurt.
And they have, what, seven floors of storage space.
The bottom two floors are totally empty.
And that's to take them up to the year 2040.
Then you go to Sweden, and they've got 20 what they call book magazines, and they blasted out 110,000 cubic meters of granite, and they're going down.
Well, something like 40% of that is totally empty, and that's to take them up to the year 2050.
So that seems to me that they're planning to not only maintain existing collections, but
but anticipating the future.
I don't see any of that in San Francisco.
I don't know what happened there.
Most of the staff members that were there when I left, he got rid of several of them, and others have retired, and several have passed away, so I've never been able to talk to anyone to find out exactly what went on the inner planning stages.
They were all new personnel.
that were in on that.
And so it was completely... Well, it is a very interesting story, and I think it's a cautionary tale, too.
Well, it is a cautionary tale.
I think you put your finger on it.
There again, I don't see absolute horrors in it.
You don't see absolute what?
Absolute horror in it.
Okay.
I see a future.
And also, this is what discouraged me when the librarian was there that you talked to.
He said to the press that...
The applicants are spooky, you know, so to speak, about coming to San Francisco because of its, oh, I guess, political unrest or turmoil.
But that is inherent in any public job.
And that is part of the challenge, and that's part of the fun, you know.
The challenge, in other words, it's not the arrival, it's the journey.
That's a good quote.
And the journey is to fulfill the aspirations of a finer library.
And that's where the sheer pleasure of it all is.
You know, and if you go to a library where there's no unrest and there's nothing to be due, it's an awful dull world.
It's just like a book, Nick.
Have you ever found a book...
that people love to read that's written about a happy man?
No.
I don't think so.
There's something out of human condition.
We like to read about the unrest.
That's right.
Conflict, don't we?
Exactly.
Well, the thing is, when I go someplace, I want a conflict.
I want something that's a challenge, you know, and that they say, I know when I went there, you know, I have a quote in this book about Al Swalbucker,
You know, I told you, after they had, see, I think Al was the first one that told me.
He said they had pointed them, and I said, well, Al, why do they cite on a young man in his 30s?
He said, well, I think we need someone who's young and foolish and doesn't know what the hell he's getting into.
And this is what, to me, that's it.
You know, there's more to the truth to that than just that many people don't realize that's what you want.
Exactly.
You know, you want that challenge.
Listen, I've got a 330.
My chiropractor's got to fix my back.
I really killed my back and my leg on this trip to Europe.
It's coming along.
I'm leaving for Italy in a week, and I've got to get squared away here.
What are you doing in Italy?
I'm going to go visit the great Renaissance libraries of Italy.
Oh, yeah.
And I'm going to do an interview with Umberto Eco in Milan.
Oh, my God.
And I'm going to go to the Vatican Library, see Father Boyle, who was the great medievalist who just recently stepped down as the prefect or the librarian there.
And I'm going to be doing a lot of things, going to the Medicea Lorenziana in Florence, which is... You do all this travel.
How do you make a living?
I'm in debt.
You're in debt?
Did you have your wife working?
I write a weekly book column, which brings me in a little bit of income.
I write a monthly column for a magazine, and I just did a piece for Civilization magazine on Murray Sendak, which paid me a nice piece of change.
And then I got a couple contracts for these books.
you know, you go from one to the other.
And I give talks, which give me a little bit of money, too.
Oh, that's good.
That's good.
You've got a good voice.
Listen, so, Bill, I think we've got over an hour here on tape, and I always think an hour is a good place to stop.
That's funny.
I'm sorry talking with you.
But let's do it again.
Okay.
And I'd like to meet you sometime.
We will.
Do you ever come up this way?
Well, I haven't in the last 10 years.
I was going west.
But sometime I may come east, and I'll give you a call.
If you do.
And then, of course, I want to come.
You're in Austin.
Do you ever see my book column?
Do you ever read The American Statesman?
Yes.
Well, I do a weekly book column, and I sell it to them.
They give me a check once a month.
I don't know how often they use it.
They probably use it once or twice a month.
Do you ever read the book pages?
I haven't been using it.
They haven't, huh?
Not that I remember.
It's interviews with authors, basically, you know.
Well, you know, that's very interesting.
You think it's on Sundays?
Yeah, I do.
I'll look.
I mean, they send me a check once a month.
Wonderful.
And they're not for a whole lot of money, but it's basically, you know.
But I haven't picked that up.
But I'll have to look.
I should call this guy Dale Rice one of these days.
See what the story is.
I think I'll call him right now.
I'd hate to rock the boat.
I'd hate to have him say, Jesus, that's right.
I should have stopped that check ages ago.
I wouldn't call him, Mick.
If I see it, I'll let you know.
Yeah.
Okay, great.
Okay, have a safe trip.
Thanks, Bill.
Bye-bye.